---
title: Why Polkadot
description: Rationale for building Moonbeam using Substrate and deploying to Polkadot
---

After extensive research, we decided to build Moonbeam using the Substrate development framework and to deploy Moonbeam as a Parachain on the Polkadot network.  For readers not familiar with this terminology, Substrate is a development framework created by Parity Technologies for building blockchains.  It dramatically reduces the engineering effort associated with lower-level blockchain development and allows us to focus on Moonbeam specific functionality and economics.  Polkadot is a blockchain network that as of this writing is in the process of launching its mainnet.  Parachains and parathreads are independent blockchains within the Polkadot network that connect to and use the main Polkadot relay chain for shared security, storage of shared logic, and the verification of cross chain messages.  Parachains and parathreads implement their own state transition functions, state storage, tokens and economics, and other functionality.

Substrate and Polkadot are a good technical fit for Moonbeam.  Substrate includes extensive functionality that we can leverage vs needing to build it ourselves.  This includes peer to peer networking, consensus mechanisms, governance functionality, an EVM implementation, etc.  By using Rust we get both safety guarantees and performance.  And by being part of the Polkadot network we will be able to directly integrate with and move tokens between any other parachains and parathreads on the network.  We also can leverage any of the bridges being independently built to connect non-Polkadot chains to Polkadot, including bridges to Ethereum.  Polkadot’s interoperability model uniquely supports Moonbeam’s cross-chain integration goals and is a key enabling technology to support the Moonbeam vision.
