## General XCM Definitions {: #general-xcm-definitions }

 - **XCM** — stands for cross-consensus message. It is a general way for consensus systems to communicate with each other
 - **VMP** — stands for vertical message passing, one of the transport methods for XCMs. It allows parachains to exchange messages with the relay chain. *UMP* (upward message passing) enables parachains to send messages to their relay chain, while *DMP* (downward message passing) enables the relay chain to pass messages down to one of their parachains
 - **XCMP** — stands for cross-consensus message passing, one of the transport methods for XCMs. It allows parachains to exchange messages with other parachains on the same relay chain
 - **HRMP** — stands for horizontal relay-routed message passing, a stop-gap protocol while a full XCMP implementation is launched. It has the same interface as XCMP, but messages are stored on the relay chain
 - **Multilocation** —  a way to specify a point in the entire relay chain/parachain ecosystem from a given origin, either relative or absolute. For example, it can be used to specify a specific parachain, asset, account, or even a pallet inside a parachain. In general terms, a multilocation is defined with a `parents` and an `interior`. Parents refers to how many "hops" into a parent blockchain you need to take from a given origin. The interior refers to how many fields you need to define the target point. For example, to target a parachain with ID `1000` from another parachain, the multilocation would be `{ "parents": 1, "interior": { "X1": [{ "Parachain": 1000 }]}}`
 - **Sovereign account** —  an account that each chain in the ecosystem has in the other chains. The account is owned by root and can only be used through SUDO (if available) or democracy (technical committee or referenda). The sovereign account normally signs XCM messages in other chains in the ecosystem